oh that's better okay here we are
you're all here welcome everyone look at
you
all right
hi everyone welcome to the ipfs weekly
cool is here it is this this thing
you're here it is the 9th of March today
we have fishin who are going to talk
about how how they are using ipfs and
how they're integrating with will - you
said web - that's the old web from where
with we're standing so that will be
super interesting I have stopped sharing
now because I've got nothing else to
show you but if you would like to take
it away Boris and Brooklyn then please
go ahead round to the phone's four
horsemen blueprint awesome this is the
talking head over here
Brooklyn depending on where you are has
a lovely Illustrated face and we've got
some other folks from the fission team
on as well Steven and styling infirm
ganked Belgium Brooke and I are in the
Vancouver area we are a distributed team
and now you should once again see a
participation yeah amazing thank you
so yes integrating into web too
I'm gonna give you guys a little bit of
background and then get into kind of
what we've built and we've been working
really on explaining what we're doing in
lots of different ways because God knows
that interplanetary file system can
often be hard to get started as a
conversation so and please go ahead and
ask questions along the way I'll kind of
roll and go relatively quickly
I am the non technical hand waver the
rest of my team are engineers I mean
theoretically I am as well but I tend to
just break things
that's what testing is for and you know
love thank you so much for having us and
love to get feedback on what we're
working on so what if front-end code was
all you needed
because front end is really the part
that humans interact with it's not gonna
go away
browsers keep getting more powerful
we've got a bunch of what we're starting
to call public infrastructure so we see
ipfs and the global and interplanetary
network as being public infrastructure
and then the other thing is sort of the
rise of edge computing server list kind
of edge kind of portable compute we use
a couple of different words for this and
I think we're just starting to see this
come into focus I mean really all apps
are hard but in particular we've been
building lamp stack apps for 30 years
and you have to do a front end you have
to do a back end and fun times you have
to add a sprinkling of DevOps to make
this stuff work and we have breaches all
the time and and we've got a really
great sort of local development
environment but basically as soon as you
get to deployment other than you know
localhost colon 4000 as a developer you
immediately have to make like a million
choices and learn a million things no
more FTP to the server as it used to be
as I stroke my long gray web 1.0 beard
so we really think that what we can do
is build web native apps so vision is
building a framework for self-contained
web native apps we're still ear quoting
this because we're kind of you know what
does that even mean we're also building
a hosted services so that all of this
stuff will just kind of work and support
but all the stuff should run locally
convenience features deployment it
should just work user accounts with data
privacy password with login and
authentication app hosting DNS yes web -
DNS is kind of like a thing we still
need to do
and then a lot of the built-in features
of IPs I'd BFS to give us those content
delivery networks and access control and
encryption so and we really think of
that um Brooke can you maybe actually
take on this slide and walk us through
this one and tell us what the dragon
means sure yeah
so the overall idea here is making web
apps more like native desktop or mobile
phone apps so on the web you have to go
and upload you know files to every
individual service and large target for
personal information and you know all
the problems associated with that on say
iOS you have your photos and you grant
access your photos to different
different applications you have storage
and authentication and compute all in a
single SDK so we're really just
mirroring that onto onto the web using
IP FS to make things
location-independent using you know
cryptography to keep everything secure
and keeping the keys in the users hands
rather than the app developers hands
just because Boris mentioned it what's
the Dragons LLVM it's just the the
compiler and runtime infrastructure
that's used on underneath iOS so we're
leveraging you know both JavaScript the
AIT's webassembly and a bunch of web
standards on top of IP FS to to make
that work and to also give nice
experiences with not having to worry
about it's not on this slide per se but
not have to worry about DevOps because
now your production server quote-unquote
is the network which is
provided by ipfs also I'm not gonna
totally go into this but this is a
diagram that Brooke has made in thinking
about the kind of pieces of the stack
and there's a lot of words there Brookes
example always is you should be able to
build an entire app while offline on a
plane create the first user account
locally and it's running it's in
production on your laptop and then you
deploy by connecting and syncing to the
rest of the network the other constraint
that we put on ourselves in deciding how
to put these pieces together is that
everything that we build in deploy and
put into the hands of front-end
developers to build apps with should
work in all browsers including mobile
without plugins so you know Allen and
team JSI PFS and some of the work being
done there definitely a key piece we're
where we want to be injecting a JSI PFS
node into into browsers and work with
service workers to make a bunch of that
stuff just work
how many people na'kal have heard of web
off and couple so very brand-new so I
won't you know we definitely are using
things that are kind of just getting out
there it is a standard it is put into
browsers and basically lets your browser
hold private keys for you and that's
what can enable some things like
password list login and we're
integrating all of this in the the
fission stack and an SDK so that people
can put this together and use it very
easily rather than everybody having to
kind of figure it out by themselves and
that's the big thing that we're doing is
we're integrating all this so what have
we built so far we have built a web api
so it's a restful api for our PFS as you
may have seen in various kind of pinning
services we very much don't think of
ourselves as a pinning services
we think of ourselves more as posting in
that we do a bunch of other things and
that pinning is kind of the least
interesting thing that gets done we
think that's gonna be pretty commodified
and that people will be able to bring
their own storage and in different
interesting ways the first thing we
actually did was build a Heroku add-on
so that's in part for the way the web to
stuff is so we made a little add-on in
the in a roku marketplace that you can
programmatically add to apps and do
one-click deploys and get access type if
that's that way by connecting to our
servers we've also built in dns
automation so we've done that directly
where people through our service to
automatically get a subdomain and you'll
be able to bring your own domains and
will probably enable domain purchases
right from the command line as well and
the other half that you typically
interact with other than the Heroku
add-on is with our CLI which is kind of
an all-in-one you know we we originally
integrate our Web API into IPSS deploy
just to work with the community on that
and but all of that work is really going
over HTTP and we really want to be using
IPF that's natively as much as possible
so we get developers to install ipfs
locally download the fission CLI tool
sign up log in all that stuff can be
done directly through the CLI and kind
of the main command that you're gonna do
is fission up and that just takes the
current directly directory works with
your local node uploads it to ipfs or
rather puts it on ipfs and then our
server reaches out and pins the dag and
we we rely on ipfs to do that syncing
and i've just got a little video here
let's see if it plays
we do so we made an index.html
we grabbed a gift from somewhere edited
the index.html we type in vision
register we've registered type in vision
watch which is basically you can have
your and there you go so probably not
something that this team hasn't had
before and we've really integrated this
all-in-one in one tool where in this
case vision watch is actually running in
the CLI so if you're typing in your
editor and you're live reloading and
you've got vision watch running on that
directory
it'll constantly be uploading your
changes constantly changing the
top-level dag and constantly updating
the DNS link text record so you can be
typing and developing and that stuff is
running directly off of your your local
development environment
next up public and private key based
accounts so this is really how we make
accounts portable using cryptography
crypto as in cryptography on our system
accounts are gonna be able to add apps
apps can have domains we've got this
sort of single account system right now
that we give you a subdomain for and
this lets people add multiple apps and
so you'll have sort of app fission dot
app that you can you can add through one
account we are working on encryption so
right now public files only web login so
web often and then the vision file
system ffs which were probably not gonna
possibly use as an acronym did Daniel
manage to join us
don't think so Brooke yeah sure
so basically identity or the way we're
using it it's almost like a just below
identity based very loosely on the ideas
verifiable credentials so we generate a
public/private key pair directly on the
clients with an onyx portable private
key and then use the public key as
identity for and that's authentication
for authorization so you now have a root
account and you can delegate access to
other accounts or to other because this
is then scoped to a single domain name
so you can go cross domain by signing
essentially a certificate that says
another account your account on the
other domain has some subsets of your
rights so it might be they're allowed to
write into my storage for the next 24
hours so in a lot of ways very similar
to how things work with OAuth and JWT
today but in a totally decentralized
manner based largely on google's
macaroons we are currently using RSA
because that's what supported in
browsers for the widest variety of
things but we have on the CLI it's all
being done with the Edward skur so a
more efficient newer version of
cryptography yeah this one's YouTube
Brooke do you want to talk a little bit
about your plans for the fission
filesystem sure I mean not not too much
to to see here beyond you know today you
can store our public files and we're
making it so that you can do private
files in a way where you can share
subdirectories again in a totally
decentralized way so
each file in each directory comes along
with the header that contains a
symmetric key for everything at its
level and then as we go up this tree
it's also including all of the keys
below it so every file at the directory
has a unique key for it and then if it
contains other keys that helps you go go
further down the tree so now you can
take some subtree and share that with
somebody by sharing a key with them
doing key rotation is pretty
straightforward we rotate the keys on on
index and then do new key exchange
because we have these nice asymmetric
keys RSA keys or Edward's keys kicking
around so we can do key exchange for
this symmetric key to to view things so
that's a read key and then a write key
is authorization into our service to
help them to allow them to pin a new dag
so a lot of stuff going on we're going
to be documenting all this and trying as
much as possible to stick with with
standards and other emerging things that
are that are happening and our primary
goal is kind of put this all together so
that it just works because obviously
there's a lot of stuff going on here I
mean we're talking a lot in sort of the
details the end result should be or will
be an API that just says you know store
privately you know this file and then
that'll be it yeah
vision dries go try it
I will you you you you can you can try
it right now you're gonna see this bowl
of duck ramen I'm sorry if there's any
vegetarians quite a bit because it ended
up being one of the the demo images that
I use in a lot and this is me especially
experimenting as I have for the last
four months with our system using IP FS
directly to share
and and sync files this just got
launched in what we call preview mode in
February and our in our team retreat so
basically this is us building an app on
top of our own framework for early
adopter end users and obviously
developers who are going to be using
this one of the things that we're
thinking about as I explore what this is
is once you have portable files how many
on the call actually I'd love to hear
this use dot files to kind of keep their
development environments and sake I'm
like trying to get better I feel like
this is something that we can maybe help
with so AppData
the the model is each user will have one
of these things controlled by a key
you'll get a convenience name like Boris
dot fission dot name and then per app
storage so just like you have on your
phone today where you're saying you're
giving photos access or a gif maker
access per app storage and then that's
all happening client-side works with any
public IP FS files private files and
password let's login coming here is a
gorgeous screenshot of image previews
yes it works on mobile as well it's
pretty zippy that's one of the things
that people tell us quite a bit and
we're obviously tinkering a lot with the
interface all of this was built by
Steven Steven are you on the call yes do
you want to just briefly talk about what
the heck is running on on there on the
client side here yes sure
we built fission driver town and element
C is this we chose L mainly for the
great developer experience the
functional program aspect and it also
allows us to like quickly iterate on app
because it's really easy to reflector
and next to that we have our get ipfs
library and we also use render media
from the web torrent folks to stream
media files yeah so we're we're trying
to showcase a bunch of things and make
it really zippy you know service workers
a bunch of other stuff in here as well
and we look forward to to releasing
releasing that as open source as well so
that other people can see how we built
it and and hack on it I don't want to
spend a bunch more time so I'll zip
through some of the rest of these things
so Steven mentioned get ipfs so this is
like ipfs provider but and it was kind
of built around the same time in October
we met some of the ipfs the p2p team and
they told us about a PFS provider we're
using es6 syntax for this and we'll
maintain this and keep getting this
working and see if we can merge at the
FS or what that works but that's
available in our github we use Haskell
on the back end you heard Steven
mentioning elm and functional
programming that would be Brooks
wheelhouse we use a lot of that so he
contributed a Haskell package that works
either with local idea if that's nodes
or remote through HTTP interfaces so
that's how we use it both as a Web API
and a local CLI we are we're not doing
any NGO stuff in-house right now so we
ended up hiring a developer to add a
feature to go out give us ipfs ignore so
we thought it was very important for our
users to not accidentally upload private
files so we implemented that in the CLI
but ideally we'd like that directly in
ipfs so there's a PR and progress and
ideally fingers crossed
I'll send links around to that if you
want to have a look and if anyone works
directly on go at the FS and get that
added upstream so we want to be part of
all of the open source communities we
work with some other external stuff so
this is the web to stuff
we basically think that there should be
lots of ways to ingest files and ipfs
and once we get more files on the
network they can be reusable you know
obviously this group I'm this is not a
surprise but I really wanna we find a
lot of time explaining why how and why
this could be useful and we think
there's interesting things around sync
you know I'd love to have an interface
where we have Drive on the desktop but
you're managing your attachments in
ghost or Drupal or discourse and that's
all reflected in a local desktop
interface and kind of make it available
in in both directions you can try this
as a one-click action so I bundled
together Heroku the ghost blogging
system and our ipfs adapter so what this
basically does is on Heroku which
doesn't have a file system you're
uploading your files your images
typically directly to ipfs so this is
then serving directly through our
gateway and has two pieces this is the
little one click deploy and then the the
the ghost storage adapter that we built
as well we've done the same thing for
discourse this is running kind of in
beta testing on our own talk forum right
now I would love to get this add-on in
to discuss ipfs i/o so that any files
that are uploaded are automatically in
ipfs and yeah really show how this how
this can work and that is my finishing
my talking very quickly ooh
incredible thank you that's super
exciting that the developer experience
that you just described there is it's
really this is something that I feel
that I profess really needs for
application building on top of IP FS and
I'm just super excited to see this is
there are people actually using like has
people built apps on this other than
yourselves yeah we I mean we
we've got about 200 accounts on the
system it's been used in some hackathons
people wonder in our discord so some
folks from origin protocol which is a
blockchain based system they were
looking for a way to make their front
end portable so really like fission up
that's it there's no step - um that's
just static front front ends we are only
going to be pushing this more broadly
and that's really been our focus when we
get the building blocks of identity and
private files and that's where things
get really really interesting that then
we believe we've got a minimal stack
where people can build completely
client-side nice right so lots of
experimentation and we're just ramping
up now to be like yes use it try it out
use these components works today nice
love it we are we have about two minutes
left so we've probably got time for one
question maybe if anyone has any
questions you want to shout it out now
or put it in the chat and we can quickly
address one any questions if people do
have questions can they contact you I
think
offline somewhere where's all of people
to get in touch all of these ways so
over on the slide right first of all
there is a link to a bunch of the
screenshots and a PDF of the
presentation a tie game that is in fact
hosted on our own service and then the
easy way to kind of talk to us directly
is in our discord chat so fission out
code slash discord gets us there and
then the talk forum which is our
discourse forum that I've just put in
chat there as well
we'd love feedback we'd love
collaborators stuff we're doing on the
front end is all a GPL we are doing a
hosted service we've got this crazy
model we're gonna ask people to pay for
services like with regular money that's
our plan right now
although we think there's some really
interesting opportunities to work with
our customers and possibly other
budgeting partners with file coin as
well and you know would love feedback
collaborators or anything come chat with
us
cool all right thank you so much and one
of the things I was gonna say it was had
away how do we how do you take my money
because I really want this and I'm
really excited for it yeah yeah that's
that's really cool thank you so much for
coming today
both Brooklyn and Boris and thank you
for presenting about fishing them it's
been really exciting and we are pretty
much out of time so I'm gonna I'm gonna
end it here it's please do get in touch
with them if you're at all interested in
it it sounds super cool and exciting so
great all right thanks again for coming
and thank you everyone else for coming
and listening to the presentation and
we'll see you again next week for
another exciting edition of ipfs weekly
[Laughter]